---
layout: single
title: IoT Dashboard
permalink: /iot-dashboard
defaults:
  # _pages
  - scope:
      path: ""
      type: pages
    values:
      layout: single
      author_profile: true
---

> Central dashboard to display and control custom Internet of Things applications
>
> January 2020
>
> [https://github.com/pmusgrave/iot-dashboard](https://github.com/pmusgrave/iot-dashboard)

As the number of Raspberry Pi projects I've completed has grown over time, I've been trying to come up with a solution to manage these projects more easily than SSH-ing in to the RPi and modifying config files. To that end, I created a React web app and REST API to control settings, and query and display data generated by those projects in an easier, more streamlined way.

At the present moment, the web app has components for two of these IoT Raspberry Pi projects: a [RGB LED driver](/led-driver) I completed a while ago, and a data visualization component to display data captured by a temperature and humidity sensor. Through this web app, I can control the color of lights in the room, and view temperature and humidity data from any time range since I started collecting data.

Turning on lights and displaying temperature data might not seem like the most interesting use cases of an IoT system, but I like to think of this almost like an IoT "hello world" system. I've built the components at every level one would need in an IoT application. Down to flipping a bit on a microcontroller, to serial communication, up through a database server, web server, REST API, and a React frontend dashboard. All of these modules can be extended orthogonally in the future to create a full fledged Internet connected smart home system that controls or logs data for anything I might be interested in.

{% include google_analytics.html %}